Let's build out a containerized workflow here using the Cloud9 environment.
Cloud9 allows us to bypass a lot of trouble that typically comes up in a project.
I'm going to go to Cloud9 and I'm going to create a new environment here.
This one will be for doing a docker build. There we go.
I'm going to pick a slightly larger one because I'm going to do some building.
I'm going to use Amazon Linux as the default.
Great. That looks like it works.
Then while that's getting created.
I'm also going to go to GitHub here and I'm going to create a new project.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to call this dockerproj,
and we'll say this is for a Docker workflow.
Then I will initialize with README.
Also grant a Python file here.
Perfect. So next up,
what I'm going to do is I'm going to go back to
my Cloud9 environment and I'm going to basically get things set up,
so that I can do things with Docker,
build an application, things like that.
So what's the first thing that I'm going to do?
Well, the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead
and create a SSH key locally here.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So we'll do ssh-keygen -t rsa.
Again, this is only necessary the very first time you're in a new AWS Cloud9 environment.
Once you've done it,
you don't have to do it again,
but I'm going to show you the steps.
Let's cat this.
Great. I've got a public SSH key now and I'll go over to my GitHub account,
go to settings, go to SSH and GPG keys,
go through here and set this up,
and we'll call this dockerproject.
Great. It asked me to authenticate.
I'm going ahead go ahead and authenticate.
Now what I can do is,
I can go back to that project I just set up,
which is dockerproject, and I'm going to clone it.
There we go. Notice I clone
via SSH so that I don't have to keep asking for the password again.
Perfect. Now we'll say git clone.
Great. Now I have bidirectional communication.
The first thing I'm going to do now inside of here is cd
into that directory and then lay out the scaffolding for my project.
So I typically always start with a makefile.
Next up, what I'll do is I'll also make a requirements file.
Here's a requirements.txt file.
Also make a Docker file. This is a new one.
Then I'm going to make a app.py file and this is going to be our application code.
Now that I've got those setup,
I can look at this tree here.
Inside this tree, I can start pasting things in.
So first, I'm going to build out a Docker file here,
and I'm going to click on that Docker file,
and I'm going to paste this code in here.
So what this does is it uses the official Python3 package, basically Docker container.
Then I'm going to build off of that.
So I'm going to say a working directory will be app.
I'm going to copy a file that I have locally in my repo into this directory.
Then I'll need to later remember that when
I shell into the machine and then I'm going to tell it
to basically install packages inside this machine. That looks good.
Now let's go to our app.
Let's make something really simple here.
I'm going to just paste in a really basic hello world script here.
Let's go ahead and do that.
Great. Then I'll also just do chmod plus x app.
Here we go.
So this one, if I test it locally here,
you can see it'll just run Hello World. There we go.
If I went to help,
you can see I've even got some help messages.
There's a lot of nice things you can do with Click.
Got an app, got a Docker file.
Let's go and also build out a makefile here.
So in order to build out the makefile structure,
what I'm going to do is look at maybe an existing makefile I've got.
I know I have one in GitHub somewhere.
Let's go ahead and find one.
Here, let's go to this.
What does this one look like?
Makefile. Let's just copy this as a skeleton
here and then I'll explain what these things do.
I'll just call this environment dockerproj.
There we go. So essentially,
what this is going to do is it's going to allow
me to use something called a hadolint as well.
What hadolint does is it actually lints my Docker file.
So next, after I've created this makefile here,
I'm going to want to download that hadolint file.
So I can do that in one fell swoop.
I'll just paste this in, like that.
So wget, grab it from GitHub,
and then chmod it afterwards.
Let's see if that works.
I can just do a up arrow here.
So it doesn't like it when I try to change permissions.
So let's say sudo chmod
plus x bin hadolint.
There we go. Now if I just say make lints, does that work?
So it looks like it is actually successfully linting that Dockerfile.
Great. So now I've got some docker linting setup,
which is pretty neat.
In the requirements file, I'm going to need to install
the Click command-line Library and I'm also going to need to install Pylint.
Then what I'll do as well is that I will create a virtual environment real quick.
I always like to do that.
So I'll use a convention that I typically use.
So I'll say Python3 -m virtual environment, tilde /.
dockerproj. So I name it the name of my GitHub repo.
Great. Then from here,
what I'll do is I will run that.
Perfect. Then from here,
I will also go ahead and source it. So here we go.
Source docker, project bin activate.
Great. Then next, I can actually do that and make
install command and just make sure that everything is going to be installed correctly.
Perfect. So things are basically set up here so that I have
the ability to make a container that can run this application.
So this is the next step here is
what I'm going to do is I'm going to run a docker build command.
Fortunately, the AWS environment already has this setup.
So if I do this, I say, docker build --tag=app.
What'll happen is it'll pull down
that base container and then it's going to allow me to make my changes above it.
So it's going to be this and this.
This is really the power of Docker is you can use
an official base container package up your own software on top of it,
tests out locally, and then you're able to package the runtime as well
as the business logic that you've made for your application.
Let's see if this is successful.
Then really the only thing next will need to do is just do a list command here.
So for a Docker image ls,
you can see that I created an image called app.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to run Docker and tell it
that I want to basically shell into that container that I just created.
Great. Now from here,
I can do the ls command and look, here's my application.
If I want to test it out,
I can actually go through here and run python app.py,
and there you can see that I've actually been able to successfully deploy my code.
I also could from here,
go ahead and take that and let's say push it to Docker Hub or push it to Amazon, ECS.
Great. So we've been very successful here at creating this project.
So the next thing that I'm going to do is I'm going to try to set up a CircleCI config.
I like to do a build system every time I work on a project.
So I'm going to go ahead and do that next.
I'm going to make directory.CircleCI.
Then I'm going to make the config file in here.
So that's going to be config.yml, I believe,
and what I can do is I can paste some config file that I've created previously inside.
So I'm going to go through and do that.
Let's go to this config file here.
Great. Let's just walk through
some of the things that I'm going to do inside of this config file.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to again,
do the same Docker base.
I'm going to do what I typically do, install dependencies.
But this time I'm adding a little twist and that I'm actually needing to
tell this environment to use this hadolint tool,
which is a tool that lets
me lint Docker files and
then everything else basically works the same because I use a make lint,
and if we look at the Makefile here,
you can say I just added one extra step inside of here.
So things are looking pretty good,
but let's add a little twist here.
Actually, let's see if we can get CircleCI to run locally.
So one thing that you can do with CircleCI that's pretty
neat is that it actually has a local mode.
So let's go find CircleCI local mode.
CircleCI local. There we go.
What I can do is do this quick installation command.
So I'm going to run this command here and let's go ahead and try that out.
Great. It says that permission is denied,
so I'm going to do sudo!! Here we go.
It says, "Cannot move user to user local permission".
What we can do, there's a couple of different ways we can solve that problem,
is that we can,
just see if it works first.
Let's see here, usr/local/bin/circle.
Let's see if this is there.
CircleCI.
So it doesn't look like that's working.
So we could try a slightly different approach to install this.
What we can do is do a manual download here,
and we could just release it that way.
That looks like that might be a better way to do it. Here we go.
Here's a Linux download.
I believe I can just copy that link and then go to CircleCI,
and let's just go into the tmp directory.
Let's do a wget and grab that locally and then do tar zxvf.
Then the name of that file.
This will unpack it.
Then from here, you can see that I've actually got access to this file.
So if I wanted to,
I can actually just move this CircleCI command here.
Let's go here.
Let's just go into this directory, cd into here.
Perfect. I believe you can just run this.
Let's try that.
So basically what this CircleCI command locally does is allows me to
simulate some of the commands that CircleCI would do remotely.
What's neat about that is that
this really gives me a lot of capabilities to test things out.
So let's actually make this a slightly easier to run here.
Let's actually see if we can move this CircleCI into,
let's say the home directory.
Let's just say tilde.
Let's try that, and then let's just cd into there.
I see CircleCI now.
So what I can try is, in fact,
I'll move it again into this environment because
Cloud nine has a specific environment that it has access to.
So now it's basically in the working directory that I'm typically used to.
What I could do is I could actually test out one of
these CircleCI configs. How could we do this?
We'll have a previous project here.
Then I'm going to look at to see how I've tested this out previously.
Let's go to this Makefile here,
and you can see there's some commands here.
So let's try a couple of these commands.
Let's paste them into our Makefile environment.
I'm going to go here and then I'm going to run this command.
So I'm going to put in this command, validates CircleCI.
Now, in this case,
I'm going to need to go to
dockerproj and I'm going to need to tell it to go one directory app,
or I'm going to need to give it the full path to
that project or I need to put it into this directory.
I guess probably the cleanest way to do this would be maybe what I'll do is I'll just
move in this CircleCI file into my dockerproj.
There we go. Then I can just run them exactly the way they were before.
So let's go ahead and try this out.
Again, remember that I created that CircleCI file already.
So let's validate my config.
Let's test out and see if it even runs.
So we'll say, "Make Validates".
Let's see here, "Make Validate".
Let's just try any kind of Make command first. Let's see here.
Yeah, so we'll just say, "Make lint".
Let's just verify that that works.
Things still work. Now, try make validate-circleci.
Does that work? No rule or because we didn't save it.
There we go. Let's go ahead and run that.
It says no CircleCI file found.
So that tells us something,
which is that maybe we didn't name this thing properly.
That might be one thing that we could check out.
We also could just try the run local as well.
So make run CircleCI local.
Let's try that one, or we even just run the command, that might be easier.
Here we go. So this command is not found because we need to execute it.
So let's go ahead and do that.
We'll just do dot slash,
and that does appear to be doing the right thing.
I think we were just missing something here.
So this says, "Invalid memory address".
We're seeing that there's a problem running this thing locally,
which is not that big of a deal.
It just means that there's a installation error in installing this package.
But in a nutshell,
this is potentially one way that you could also test
out CircleCI is not just run it remotely,
but run it locally,
and there's some debugging that we'll need to do to fix that.
But what I'll do is I'll do it the old-fashioned way.
I'm going to go ahead and commit this code.
So I'm going to move this CircleCI directory into the tmp directory.
I'm going to say git status and just check all of us in.
So we'll say git add.circleci,
and then I'll do a git add,
add in these peripheral files here.
Now, adding in Docker projects,
the only thing left would be to go and actually hook this up in CircleCI.
Let's go back to CircleCI here.
I think it's right here,
this tab, and let's select build new projects.
Add projects.
We should see this one as a new project,
which would be, there we go, Docker project.
Then we'll just say start building because we've already made that config file.
If everything is correct,
the linting and everything is correct, this should work.
Then later we can figure out how to properly install a local version of CircleCI,
which is very useful as well.
But first, let's see if this thing actually works.
It looks to be successful, which is great.
So we're able to actually completely lint a Docker file Project plus Python code.
We were able to test it out locally.
So I would call this a success.
Then in another video I can dive into how to
configure local CircleCI and test out as well.